
# NBAC Harmonization Subcommittee Minutes

July 20, 2023

## Attendees

- Jennifer Stathakis, Biometrics
- Josh Wilson, Biometrics
- Christina Medlin, NIEM support

## Meeting startup

### Review agenda

Review current meeting agenda.

### Review and approve meeting minutes from last session

[2023-06-15 meeting minutes](./2023-06-15-minutes.md) - Minutes approved.

### General updates

General updates from subcommittee members:

- Jennifer Stathakis will be stepping down from the subcommittee and Josh Wilson will take her place

## Status

Not enough members present to make decisions on issue recommendations.  Reviewed  topics from last week and concluded the meeting early.

**_End of meeting_**

---

## Review staged proposals

Review model pull requests with updated schemas based on HSC-approved proposals before they are sent to the NBAC for final approval.

## Continue review of unresolved issues

### Consider adding pronouns to nc:PersonType [(niemopen/niem-model#15)](https://github.com/niemopen/niem-model/issues/15)

> The new Contact form for the updated WhiteHouse.gov site has added support for personal pronouns (for gender specification). This may become a trend for government agency websites in the future.

Status: General consensus to add, but pending further review by IHS over the definition and code set

## Review new issues

### Model package questions ([niemopen/niem-model#36](https://github.com/niemopen/niem-model/issues/36))

Review questions from [Agenda Item Request](https://lists.oasis-open-projects.org/g/niemopen-nbactsc/message/93) posted to the NBAC mailing list.

> 1. The directory structure in https://github.com/niemopen/niem-model. If you look at the readme now, it explains the difference between 5.1 and 5.2. It doesn't explain what is in the csv directory vs the json-ld directory vs the xlsx directory vs the xsd directory.
>
> 2. The directory structure in https://github.com/niemopen/niem-model/tree/main/xsd. This directory doesn't even have a readme (albeit it would be ok if explained in it's parent readme)
>
> 3. The mapping of which content is NTAC, which is NBAC, which is NBAC subcommittees (harmonization, domains). It's reasonably straightforward (I assume) in the domain directory but who owns process for rest of them? I realize it's complicated (ie by the file, and sometimes by the line in the file) but we should still understand and document the swimlanes.
>
> 4. The mapping of 'namespaces' to NTAC/NBAC/subcommittee. Some are straightforward (eg cyber owns cyber) but there are 56 namespaces (I presume since 56 lines in first tame of the xlsx version of niem 5.2) and most are not obvious to the uninformed. Eg I know (or at least assume) STIX namespace is owned by cyber domain - but only because I am a SME in STIX (and maybe I'm wrong, maybe it's in MilOps or in Core).
>
> 5. What are 'rules'/'process' for making new namespace vs using existing.

See the [followup message](https://lists.oasis-open-projects.org/g/niemopen-nbactsc/message/94) for some currently available resources.

### Refactor nc:EmployeeAssignmentAssociation ([#14](https://github.com/niemopen/niem-model/issues/14))

> Move nc:EmployeeRegistrationAbstract and nc:EmployeeSupervisorIndicator elements to nc:EmploymentAssociationType so that they can be used as part of EmploymentAssociation and/or the EmployeeAssignmentAssociation. This is consistent with the previous movement of other elements from nc:EmployeeAssignmentAssociationType to nc:EmploymentAssociationType.

### Adapter namespace prefixes ([niemopen/niem-model#35](https://github.com/niemopen/niem-model/issues/35))

> Should NIEM make adapter namespace prefixes easier to spot and distinguish from external namespace prefixes?  NIEM could follow the same pattern used for `xs` (external) vs `niem-xs` (proxy):
>
> External | Current adapter | Proposed adapter
> --- | --- | ---
> *xs* | *niem-xs* | *niem-xs*
> cap | edxl-cap | niem-cap
> de | edxl-de | niem-de
> have | edxl-have | niem-have
> gml | geo | niem-gml

### Refactor j:DriverLicenseType to create a generic nc:LicenseType ([niemopen/niem-model#37](https://github.com/niemopen/niem-model/issues/37))

Refactor j:DriverLicenseType to create a generic nc:LicenseType that can be leveraged for additional kinds of licenses.
