
# NBAC Harmonization Subcommittee Minutes

June 15, 2023

## Attendees

- April Mitchell, Justice
- Cynthia Sun, International Human Services
- Duncan Sparrell, Cyber
- Vamsi Kondannagari, Biometrics
- Kelly Cullinane, OASIS
- Chet Ensign, OASIS
- Christina Medlin, NIEM staff

## Meeting startup

### Review agenda

Review current meeting agenda.

### Review and approve meeting minutes from last session

[2023-06-01 meeting minutes](./2023-06-01-minutes.md)

### General updates

General updates from subcommittee members.

- IHS update:
  - Working on domain content
  - Working on gender code vs sex code, pronouns, some other things that may affect Core / harmonization
- FBI / NCIC update:
  - NCIC will have the next quarterly update in July (primarily VMA)
  - Possible update request for a code set in the Justice domain

### Review NTAC proposals

## Support inline metadata for objects ([niemopen/niem-naming-design-rules#8](https://github.com/niemopen/niem-naming-design-rules/issues/8))

> NIEM currently treats metadata in a special manner.  NIEM requires the use of `structures:metadata` or `structures:relationshipMetadata` reference attributes to attach metadata to objects.
>
> The NTAC is planning to simplify the use of metadata by allowing it to be meaningful when added to directly to types, without the need for special referencing.  The NTAC is also planning to allow metadata types to be extended or augmented, similar to other NIEM object types.

Status: HSC reviewed and had no issues with the proposal

### New nc:ObjectType ([ntac-admin discussion #58](https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/discussions/58))

> The NTAC is planning to recommend the creation of a new `nc:ObjectType` to serve as the default parent of all object types that are not derived from another content type in NIEM.  The purpose of this is to move the augmentation point out of the structures namespace into Core, as this is content-related rather than XML plumbing for NIEM.
>
> There is already a type `nc:AssociationType` in Core, so the augmentation point for `structures:AugmentationType` could be removed.
>
> This update to the model would affect 1,308 types currently in NIEM, but could be updated via automation by model maintainers.  It would also affect new and migrated IEPDs, requiring IEPD developers to change the inheritance of types that currently extend `structures:ObjectType`.
>
> Another consideration:  Is there anything besides the augmentation point that should be added to nc:ObjectType?  nc:AssociationType contains properties for the begin and end date of the association, and a description property.  Should `nc:Metadata` be added to `nc:ObjectType` so that metadata could be automatically available for any object in NIEM?  Or is it better to attach metadata explicitly only where needed?

Status: HSC reviewed and had no issues with the proposal

### Drop attributes from `structures:SimpleObjectAttributeGroup` ([niemopen/niem-naming-design-rules#33](https://github.com/niemopen/niem-naming-design-rules/issues/33))

> The NTAC is considering dropping the following attributes from `structures:SimpleObjectAttributeGroup`, which would remove the ability to create references, support linked data, and support relationship metadata for elements with values:
>
>- `structures:relationshipMetadata`

Status: HSC reviewed and had no issues.

## Continue review of unresolved issues

### Consider adding pronouns to nc:PersonType [(niemopen/niem-model#15)](https://github.com/niemopen/niem-model/issues/15)

> The new Contact form for the updated WhiteHouse.gov site has added support for personal pronouns (for gender specification). This may become a trend for government agency websites in the future.

Status: General consensus to add, but still pending further review by IHS over the definition and code set.

## Review new issues

### Support JSON external standards ([niemopen/niem-model#28](https://github.com/niemopen/niem-model/issues/28))

> Currently the NIEM Model can only have XML adaptors. Eg http://niem.github.io/reference/concepts/adapter/ doesn't show it, but all the boxes in that first picture currently must be XML.
>
> For example, NIEM does not have an adaptor for STIX because STIX is specified in JSON.
>
> The proposal is to allow JSON adaptors for JSON NIEM elements adapted from external JSON specifications like STIX, CACAO, IoB, OpenC2, etc.

**If approved, how should NIEM support JSON external standards?**

- JSON by reference
- JSON via the NIEM adapter mechanism
- Make the content NIEM conformant, supporting inclusion in NIEM XML as well

**Representation terms:**

- Add "XML" or "JSON" to the "Adapter" representation term, making it clear which kind of format the standard is available in?

**Related issues:**

- Add adapter for STIX ([niemopen/niem-model#29](https://github.com/niemopen/niem-model/issues/29))
- Add adapter for CACAO ([niemopen/niem-model#30](https://github.com/niemopen/niem-model/issues/30))
- Add adapter for OpenC2 ([niemopen/niem-model#31](https://github.com/niemopen/niem-model/issues/31))
- Add adapter for IoB ([niemopen/niem-model#32](https://github.com/niemopen/niem-model/issues/32))
- Add adapter for Threat Actor Context (TAC) ([niemopen/niem-model#33](https://github.com/niemopen/niem-model/issues/33))

**Status:**

- IHS has created JSON schemas and OpenAPI for NIEM schemas
  - May want to review with the NTAC
- HSC recommends approval

### Support unknown or n/a for simple content ([niemopen/niem-model#34](https://github.com/niemopen/niem-model/issues/34))

> Some domains and IEPDs create custom types because NIEM complex value types (e.g., niem-xs:boolean, nc:TextType, nc:QuantityType) can't easily represent that the value is unknown or n/a...
>
> NIEM currently has a way of indicating why a value was not provided via nc:Metadata:
>
> - nc:EmptyReasonCode (nc:EmptyReasonCodeSimpleType)
> - nc:EmptyReasonText (nc:TextType)
> - nc:EmptyReasonDescriptionText (nc:TextType)
>
> Creating similar attributes would allow us to add these to existing types like `nc:TextType` and `nc:QuantityType`.  Creating new types like `nc:BooleanType` and `nc:TokenType` would add support for other properties with values.

Status: Needs further discussion and follow up

### Model package questions

Review questions from [Agenda Item Request](https://lists.oasis-open-projects.org/g/niemopen-nbactsc/message/93) posted to the NBAC mailing list.

> 1. The directory structure in https://github.com/niemopen/niem-model. If you look at the readme now, it explains the difference between 5.1 and 5.2. It doesn't explain what is in the csv directory vs the json-ld directory vs the xlsx directory vs the xsd directory.
>
> 2. The directory structure in https://github.com/niemopen/niem-model/tree/main/xsd. This directory doesn't even have a readme (albeit it would be ok if explained in it's parent readme)
>
> 3. The mapping of which content is NTAC, which is NBAC, which is NBAC subcommittees (harmonization, domains). It's reasonably straightforward (I assume) in the domain directory but who owns process for rest of them? I realize it's complicated (ie by the file, and sometimes by the line in the file) but we should still understand and document the swimlanes.
>
> 4. The mapping of 'namespaces' to NTAC/NBAC/subcommittee. Some are straightforward (eg cyber owns cyber) but there are 56 namespaces (I presume since 56 lines in first tame of the xlsx version of niem 5.2) and most are not obvious to the uninformed. Eg I know (or at least assume) STIX namespace is owned by cyber domain - but only because I am a SME in STIX (and maybe I'm wrong, maybe it's in MilOps or in Core).
>
> 5. What are 'rules'/'process' for making new namespace vs using existing.
>
> See the [followup message](https://lists.oasis-open-projects.org/g/niemopen-nbactsc/message/94) for some currently available resources.

- Add feedback to the issues
- At a minimum, provide links to documentation elsewhere

**_End of meeting_**

---

### Refactor nc:EmployeeAssignmentAssociation ([#14](https://github.com/niemopen/niem-model/issues/14))

> Move nc:EmployeeRegistrationAbstract and nc:EmployeeSupervisorIndicator elements to nc:EmploymentAssociationType so that they can be used as part of EmploymentAssociation and/or the EmployeeAssignmentAssociation. This is consistent with the previous movement of other elements from nc:EmployeeAssignmentAssociationType to nc:EmploymentAssociationType.

### Adapter namespace prefixes ([niemopen/niem-model#35](https://github.com/niemopen/niem-model/issues/35))

> Should NIEM make adapter namespace prefixes easier to spot and distinguish from external namespace prefixes?  NIEM could follow the same pattern used for `xs` (external) vs `niem-xs` (proxy):
>
> External | Current adapter | Proposed adapter
> --- | --- | ---
> _xs_ | _niem-xs_ | _niem-xs_
> cap | edxl-cap | niem-cap
> de | edxl-de | niem-de
> have | edxl-have | niem-have
> gml | geo | niem-gml
