
# NBAC Harmonization Subcommittee Agenda

June 01, 2023

## Meeting startup

### Review agenda

Review current meeting agenda.

### Review and approve meeting minutes from last session

[2023-05-18 meeting minutes](./2023-05-18-minutes.md)

### General updates

General updates from subcommittee members.

## Review staged proposals

Review model pull requests with updated schemas based on HSC-approved proposals before they are sent to the NBAC for final approval.

## Review NTAC proposals

### Require unique enumerations [(NDR#30)](https://github.com/niemopen/niem-naming-design-rules/issues/30)

> Aren't enums supposed to be unique in JSON? How do we translate between NIEM XML and NIEM JSON in this case? Merge overlapping definitions for everybody; just for the JSON representation?

### Require definitions for patterns [(NDR#12)](https://github.com/niemopen/niem-naming-design-rules/issues/12)

> Definitions are required for enumeration facets only. Would also require definitions for patterns to give people a general idea of what the pattern is doing (or meant to be doing).

### Get rid of structures:sequenceID [(NDR#19)](https://github.com/niemopen/niem-naming-design-rules/issues/19)

> Replace structures:sequenceID with an appinfo element that marks it as sorted, for multiple elements.
>
> It's an XML kludge that doesn't translate well to other things.

### Redo roles [(NDR#6)](https://github.com/niemopen/niem-naming-design-rules/issues/6)

> The need to be able to link different roles to the same base object or a specialized object makes sense (link victim, witness, and officer to the same person object), but:
>
> - the syntax confuses a lot of people at first
> - most people don't need it, so it would be nice if they didn't have to use RoleOf elements regardless
> - lots of things that could be defined as roles are defined as extensions, because
>   - that's the easier thing to do
>   - doesn't required advanced NIEM training
>   - we can't check it automatically via conformance testing
>
> The important part is being able to link various roles to the same base object if needed; not the current syntax we have now. We might be able to redesign it so it's easier for the 90% use case. Make it more invisible unless people need to use it.

See the [Roles](https://niem.github.io/reference/concepts/role/) section on niem.github.io for more information about roles in NIEM.

## Continue review of unresolved issues

### Consider adding pronouns to nc:PersonType [(#15)](https://github.com/niemopen/niem-model/issues/15)

> The new Contact form for the updated WhiteHouse.gov site has added support for personal pronouns (for gender specification). This may become a trend for government agency websites in the future.

Status: General consensus to add, but pending further review by IHS over the definition and code set

## Review new issues

### Model package questions

Review questions from [Agenda Item Request](https://lists.oasis-open-projects.org/g/niemopen-nbactsc/message/93) posted to the NBAC mailing list.

> 1. The directory structure in https://github.com/niemopen/niem-model. If you look at the readme now, it explains the difference between 5.1 and 5.2. It doesn't explain what is in the csv directory vs the json-ld directory vs the xlsx directory vs the xsd directory.
>
> 2. The directory structure in https://github.com/niemopen/niem-model/tree/main/xsd. This directory doesn't even have a readme (albeit it would be ok if explained in it's parent readme)
>
> 3. The mapping of which content is NTAC, which is NBAC, which is NBAC subcommittees (harmonization, domains). It's reasonably straightforward (I assume) in the domain directory but who owns process for rest of them? I realize it's complicated (ie by the file, and sometimes by the line in the file) but we should still understand and document the swimlanes.
>
> 4. The mapping of 'namespaces' to NTAC/NBAC/subcommittee. Some are straightforward (eg cyber owns cyber) but there are 56 namespaces (I presume since 56 lines in first tame of the xlsx version of niem 5.2) and most are not obvious to the uninformed. Eg I know (or at least assume) STIX namespace is owned by cyber domain - but only because I am a SME in STIX (and maybe I'm wrong, maybe it's in MilOps or in Core).
>
> 5. What are 'rules'/'process' for making new namespace vs using existing.

See the [followup message](https://lists.oasis-open-projects.org/g/niemopen-nbactsc/message/94) for some currently available resources.

### Refactor nc:EmployeeAssignmentAssociation ([#14](https://github.com/niemopen/niem-model/issues/14))

> Move nc:EmployeeRegistrationAbstract and nc:EmployeeSupervisorIndicator elements to nc:EmploymentAssociationType so that they can be used as part of EmploymentAssociation and/or the EmployeeAssignmentAssociation. This is consistent with the previous movement of other elements from nc:EmployeeAssignmentAssociationType to nc:EmploymentAssociationType.
