
# NBAC Harmonization Subcommittee Minutes (Draft)

September 07, 2023

## Attendees

- Chuck Chipman, MilOps
- Josh Wilson, Biometrics
- Brian Thi, Justice / NCIC
- Kamran Atri, NBAC co-chair, Emergency Management
- Ashok Singal, Biometrics-focused market research community
- Christina Medlin, NIEM support

## Meeting startup

### Review agenda

Review current meeting agenda.

### Review and approve meeting minutes from last session

[2023-08-17 meeting minutes](./2023-08-17-minutes.md)

### General updates

General updates from subcommittee members:

- Chuck is working on updates for the distribution statement included in the package

### Schedule and process

- Will set up an additional meeting for 9/14
- Prep for PSD 01 and the public review.  Notify the PGB next week? (needs 14 days advance notice)?
  - OASIS: PGB notification has to include finalized changes
- Will need a PSD 02 if there are material changes after reviewing PS 01

## Review pull request

Review pull request with staged changes:

- Update role content ([niemopen/niem-model#49](https://github.com/niemopen/niem-model/pull/49)).  Addresses two role-related issues:
  - Replace the RoleOf construct ([niemopen/niem-naming-design-rules#6](https://github.com/niemopen/niem-naming-design-rules/issues/6))
  - Refactor other role components ([niemopen/niem-model#38](https://github.com/niemopen/niem-model/issues/38))

## Review issues

### Synchronize Justice domain version number with NIEM ([niemopen/niem-model#42](https://github.com/niemopen/niem-model/issues/42))

> The Justice domain is the only exception to the way NIEM content namespaces are numbered, which otherwise correspond with the major version of Core...

Justice domain in NIEM 5.2:

- URI: http://release.niem.gov/niem/domains/jxdm/7.2/
- Definition: "Justice"

Proposal:

- URI: https://docs.oasis-open.org/niemopen/ns/model/domains/justice/6.0/
- Definition: "Justice domain 6.0 / GJXDM 8.0"

**Harmonization Subcommittee recommends approval**

### Consider adding pronouns to nc:PersonType [(niemopen/niem-model#15)](https://github.com/niemopen/niem-model/issues/15)

> The new Contact form for the updated WhiteHouse.gov site has added support for personal pronouns (for gender specification). This may become a trend for government agency websites in the future.

Status: General consensus to add, but pending further review by IHS over the definition and code set

Proposal:  Add the substitution group head and text field to Core.  Consider adding the codes listed in the issue as the Core code set. IHS or other domains could add their own code sets to the substitution group in later versions.

**Harmonization Subcommittee recommends adding the properties. Other domains may add their own code sets to the substitution group during 6.1 or a later version.**

### Support removal of structures:metadata on simple content ([niemopen/niem-model#46](https://github.com/niemopen/niem-model/issues/46))

> The NTAC is removing the structures:metadata and structures:relationshipMetadata attributes.
>
> - Metadata should be added directly to class types in the future.
> - Attribute wildcards will be available to support adding additional attributes to data types (strings, numbers, booleans, etc.).
> - Attribute augmentation will be available to link element content to data properties. This will be somewhat similar to the old structures:metadata attributes, but custom attribute will need to be created for each and added to the relevant types.
>   - See https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/tree/main/examples/src/Augmentation, specifically section 5.
>
> We may want to go ahead and create a few attribute augmentations to support common use cases in the NIEM model:
>
> - nc:metadataRef (xs:IDREFS)
> - cui:portionMarkingMetadataRef (xs:IDREFS)
>
> We may also want to attach these to nc:TextType, so they are available via standard subset tooling.

**Harmonization Subcommittee recommends adding attribute refs for nc:Metadata and cui:PortionMarkingMetadata and adding them to nc:TextType**

### Refactor j:DriverLicenseType to create a generic nc:LicenseType ([niemopen/niem-model#37](https://github.com/niemopen/niem-model/issues/37))

> Refactor j:DriverLicenseType to create a generic nc:LicenseType that can be leveraged for additional kinds of licenses.
>
> See initial list of digital identification requirements at https://lists.oasis-open-projects.org/g/niemopen-harmonizationsc/message/13.

- General consensus, pending review of change request

**Basic proposal:**

Refactor the existing nc:IdentificationType and Justice driver license-related types to harmonized and to support a new generic LicenseType in Core.  Refactor other related types in NIEM.

See discussion at https://github.com/niemopen/niem-model/discussions/45.

Add current FAA requirements not suitable for Core to the Screening domain?

- PersonPrimaryName and PersonSecondaryName as a Screening augmentation for nc:PersonName?

**Harmonization Subcommittee reviewed the initial change request spreadsheet attached to the GitHub issue and recommends the initial set of proposed changes.  Additional updates to the change request are in the works and will need additional review.**
