
# NBAC Harmonization Subcommittee Agenda

August 17, 2023

## Meeting startup

### Review agenda

Review current meeting agenda.

### Review and approve meeting minutes from last session

[2023-07-20 meeting minutes](./2023-08-03-minutes.md)

### General updates

General updates from subcommittee members

## Review issues

### Biometrics and NCIC hair color code harmonization

> Is it possible to align the Biometrics (NIST) and NCIC hair color code sets?  They are very similar.  Main differences are that Biometrics has a code for streaked and separate codes for unknown and bald.

### Refactor other role components ([niemopen/niem-model#38](https://github.com/niemopen/niem-model/issues/38))

> There are properties and types in NIEM that do not use the NDR RoleOf construct but still use Role as a class or representation term. Review these properties to make sure they are named and modeled appropriately.

### Support unknown or n/a for simple content ([niemopen/niem-model#34](https://github.com/niemopen/niem-model/issues/34))

> Some domains and IEPDs create custom types because NIEM complex value types (e.g., niem-xs:boolean, nc:TextType, nc:QuantityType) can't easily represent that the value is unknown or n/a.

Proposals:

- Create a type in Core for Yes / No / Unknown code values
- Create an attribute of type nc:EmptyReasonCodeSimpleType

### Refactor j:DriverLicenseType to create a generic nc:LicenseType ([niemopen/niem-model#37](https://github.com/niemopen/niem-model/issues/37))

> Refactor j:DriverLicenseType to create a generic nc:LicenseType that can be leveraged for additional kinds of licenses.
>
> See initial list of digital identification requirements at https://lists.oasis-open-projects.org/g/niemopen-harmonizationsc/message/13.

- General consensus, pending review of change request

### Consider adding pronouns to nc:PersonType [(niemopen/niem-model#15)](https://github.com/niemopen/niem-model/issues/15)

> The new Contact form for the updated WhiteHouse.gov site has added support for personal pronouns (for gender specification). This may become a trend for government agency websites in the future.

Status: General consensus to add, but pending further review by IHS over the definition and code set
