
# NBAC Harmonization Subcommittee Minutes

August 17, 2023

## Meeting startup

### Attendees

- April Mitchell, Justice / FBI codes
- Josh Wilson, Biometrics
- Cynthia Sun, International Human Services
- Vamsi Kondannagari, Biometrics
- Christina Medlin, NIEM support

### Review agenda

Review current meeting agenda.

### Review and approve meeting minutes from last session

[2023-08-03 meeting minutes](./2023-08-03-minutes.md)

### General updates

General updates from subcommittee members

- Cynthia: No CLA yet for IHS
- Vamsi: Changes to propose for NIEM Core but not ready yet.

## Review issues

### Biometrics and NCIC hair color code harmonization

> Is it possible to align the Biometrics (NIST) and NCIC hair color code sets?  They are very similar.  Main differences are that Biometrics has a code for streaked and separate codes for unknown and bald.

- April contacted the NCIC program office and received this response:

> We'll have to have some internal conversations about this. It would require coordination between systems, and I think these things usually go through the APB process. I'll get back to you!

### Redo roles ([niemopen/niem-naming-design-rules#6](https://github.com/niemopen/niem-naming-design-rules/issues/6))

> NTAC has approved the simplification to roles in NIEM.  The `structures:uri` attribute can be used to link multiple entities in an instance together as the same object.  Special RoleOf properties are no longer needed and inheritance can be used.  The representation pattern is to be used in cases where a type could be the role of multiple objects.  The model needs to be updated according to these changes.

- The Harmonization Subcommittee reviewed the NDR changes and the specific content changes captured in the spreadsheet attached to issue an issue comment at https://github.com/niemopen/niem-naming-design-rules/issues/6#issuecomment-1707330975.
- Recommendation approved.

### Refactor other role components ([niemopen/niem-model#38](https://github.com/niemopen/niem-model/issues/38))

> There are properties and types in NIEM that do not use the NDR RoleOf construct but still use Role as a class or representation term. Review these properties to make sure they are named and modeled appropriately.

- The Harmonization Subcommittee reviewed the issue and additional changes captured in the spreadsheet attached to issue an issue comment at https://github.com/niemopen/niem-model/issues/38#issuecomment-1707329037.
- Recommendation approved.

### Support unknown or n/a for simple content ([niemopen/niem-model#34](https://github.com/niemopen/niem-model/issues/34))

> Some domains and IEPDs create custom types because NIEM complex value types (e.g., niem-xs:boolean, nc:TextType, nc:QuantityType) can't easily represent that the value is unknown or n/a.

Proposals:

- Create a type in Core for Yes / No / Unknown code values
- Create an attribute of type nc:EmptyReasonCodeSimpleType and an attribute for the corresponding text field. These attributes could be plugged into simple content types in message schemas via support for attribute wildcards in NIEM 6.0.

Recommendation approved.

### Refactor j:DriverLicenseType to create a generic nc:LicenseType ([niemopen/niem-model#37](https://github.com/niemopen/niem-model/issues/37))

> Refactor j:DriverLicenseType to create a generic nc:LicenseType that can be leveraged for additional kinds of licenses.
>
> See initial list of digital identification requirements at https://lists.oasis-open-projects.org/g/niemopen-harmonizationsc/message/13.

- General consensus, pending review of change request

**_End of meeting_**

### Consider adding pronouns to nc:PersonType [(niemopen/niem-model#15)](https://github.com/niemopen/niem-model/issues/15)

> The new Contact form for the updated WhiteHouse.gov site has added support for personal pronouns (for gender specification). This may become a trend for government agency websites in the future.

Status: General consensus to add, but pending further review by IHS over the definition and code set
